Coding and Decoding 

One of the ways, in which coding and decoding is done is by jumbling the words. There are various reasoning tricks that are used for jumbling the letters in a given word. The jumbled code may put the words in a certain numerical order or an ascending or descending order based on their positions in the alphabetical series.
 
Problem 1: In a certain code ‘BEAN’ is written as ‘ABNE’ and ‘SALE’ is written as ‘LSEA’. How will ‘NEWS’ be written in this code?
Solution 1:
The minute we look at this coding and decoding question, there is one thing that strikes us immediately. The letters that have been used to write the code are the same as the letters in the actual word.
coding and decoding
Now, the next thing to do is analyze the pattern and the set of reasoning tricks that will help 1
SALE à LSEA
On closer examination of this code, we realize, that the letters of the word have been reorganized in an order-
B1 E 2A 3N4 à A3 B1 N4 E2
S1 A 2L 3E4 à L3 S1 E4 A2
So applying the same order to the given word we get-
NEWS à WNSE
So based on the order of the letters, we are able to decode this code.
 
Problem 2: In a certain code ‘TALENT’ is written as ‘AELNTT’. How will the word ‘SPRINT’ be written in this code?
Solution 2:
It is kind of obvious that the minute you look at this coding and decoding question, the logic used in the previous question resonates with you and you are tempted to use it in this coding-decoding question. But if you observe that will be very difficult to do in this case.
coding and decoding
Analyze closely, and you’ll see a pattern-
T1 A 2L 3 E4 N 5T6 à A1 E5 L12 N14 T20 T20
The letters in the word have been arranged in alphabetical order, in the same order as which they appear in the series of alphabets. So,
S1 P 2R 3 I4 N 5T6 à I9 N14 P16 R18 S19 T20
Arranging the letters in order we get our answer.
Set II – Coding and Decoding Problems form Complex Coding
This is a slightly complicated way of coding and decoding. All the reasoning tricks that we have discussed till now use one trick in coding and decoding. Often, more than one operation is performed on the word in coding and decoding, and when this is done multiple reasoning tricks are used. Such a way of coding and decoding is called complex coding.
 
Problem 1: In a certain code ‘JEALOUS’ is written as ‘BFKKTVP’. How will ‘HEARTEN’ be written in this code?
Solution 1:
The minute we look at this coding and decoding question, you may feel that something is not in place as none of the reasoning tricks discussed till now seem to be used here.
